Implement Podman Container Clone (#13059)
containers/podman: docs/source/markdown/podman-container-clone.1.md

% podman-container-clone(1)

## NAME
podman\-container\-clone - Creates a copy of an existing container

## SYNOPSIS
**podman container clone** [*options*] *container*

## DESCRIPTION
**podman container clone** creates a copy of a container, recreating all namespaces using the original options when the container was created allowing users to manipulate the original configuration.

## OPTIONS

#### **--name**

Set a custom name for the cloned container. The default if not specified is of the syntax: **<ORIGINAL_NAME>-clone**

#### **--destroy**

> Remove the original container that we are cloning once used to mimic the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remove the original container that we are cloning once used to mimic the configuration.
```

#### **--cpus**

Set a number of CPUs for the container that overrides the original containers CPU limits. If none are specified, the original container's Nano CPUs are used.

This is shorthand

> for **--cpu-period** and **--cpu-quota**, so you may only set either

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for **--cpu-period** and **--cpu-quota**, so you may only set
```

Author: should i also delete `so only` here @TomSweeneyRedHat ?

Author: ah nevermind I see the other edits below

> #### **--cpus** or **--cpu-period** and **--cpu-quota**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 **--cpus** or either or both the  **--cpu-period** and **--cpu-quota** options.
```

#### **--cpuset-cpus**

CPUs in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1). If none are specified, the original container's CPUset is used.

#### **--cpu-period**=*limit*

Set the CPU period for the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS), which is a
duration in microseconds. Once the container's CPU quota is used up, it will
not be scheduled to run until the current period ends. Defaults to 100000
microseconds.

On some systems, changing the CPU limits may not be allowed for non-root
users. For more details, see
https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/master/troubleshooting.md#26-running-containers-with-cpu-limits-fails-with-a-permissions-error

If none is specified, the original container's cpu period is used

#### **--cpu-shares**=*shares*

CPU shares (relative weight)

By default, all containers get the same proportion of CPU cycles. This proportion
can be modified by changing the container's CPU share weighting relative
to the weighting of all other running containers.

To modify the proportion from the default of 1024, use the **--cpu-shares**

> flag to set the weighting to 2 or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
option to set the weighting to 2 or higher.
```

The proportion will only apply when CPU-intensive processes are running.
When tasks in one container are idle, other containers can use the
left-over CPU time. The actual amount of CPU time will vary depending on
the number of containers running on the system.

For example, consider three containers, one has a cpu-share of 1024 and
two others have a cpu-share setting of 512. When processes in all three
containers attempt to use 100% of CPU, the first container would receive

> 50% of the total CPU time. If you add a fourth container with a cpu-share

Reviewer: ```suggestion
50% of the total CPU time. If a fourth container is added with a cpu-share
```

of 1024, the first container only gets 33% of the CPU. The remaining containers
receive 16.5%, 16.5% and 33% of the CPU.

On a multi-core system, the shares of CPU time are distributed over all CPU
cores. Even if a container is limited to less than 100% of CPU time, it can
use 100% of each individual CPU core.

> For example, consider a system with more than three cores. If you start one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider a system with more than three cores. If 
```

> container **{C0}** with **-c=512** running one process, and another container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
container **{C0}** is started with **-c=512** running one process, and another container
```

**{C1}** with **-c=1024** running two processes, this can result in the following
division of CPU shares:

PID    container	CPU	CPU share
100    {C0}		0	100% of CPU0
101    {C1}		1	100% of CPU1
102    {C1}		2	100% of CPU2

If none are specified, the original container's CPU shares are used.

#### **--cpuset-mems**=*nodes*

Memory nodes (MEMs) in which to allow execution (0-3, 0,1). Only effective on NUMA systems.

> If you have four memory nodes on your system (0-3), use `--cpuset-mems=0,1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are four memory nodes on the system (0-3), use `--cpuset-mems=0,1`
```

> then processes in your container will only use memory from the first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then processes in the container will only use memory from the first
```

two memory nodes.

If none are specified, the original container's CPU memory nodes are used.

#### **--cpu-quota**=*limit*

Limit the CPU Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS) quota.

Limit the container's CPU usage. By default, containers run with the full

> CPU resource. The limit is a number in microseconds. If you provide a number,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPU resource. The limit is a number in microseconds. If a number is provided,
```

the container will be allowed to use that much CPU time until the CPU period
ends (controllable via **--cpu-period**).

On some systems, changing the CPU limits may not be allowed for non-root
users. For more details, see
https://github.com/containers/podman/blob/master/troubleshooting.md#26-running-containers-with-cpu-limits-fails-with-a-permissions-error

If none is specified, the original container's CPU quota are used.

#### **--cpu-rt-period**=*microseconds*

Limit the CPU real-time period in microseconds

> Limit the container's Real Time CPU usage. This flag tell the kernel to restrict the container's Real Time CPU usage to the period you specify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Limit the container's Real Time CPU usage. This option tells the kernel to restrict the container's Real Time CPU usage to the period specified.
```

> Limit the container's Real Time CPU usage. This flag tell the kernel to restrict the container's Real Time CPU usage to the period you specify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Limit the container's Real Time CPU usage. This option tells the kernel to restrict the container's Real Time CPU usage to the period you specify.
```

> This flag is not supported on cgroups V2 systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is not supported on cgroups V2 systems.
```

If none is specified, the original container's CPU runtime period is used.

#### **--cpu-rt-runtime**=*microseconds*

> Limit the CPU real-time runtime in microseconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Limit the CPU real-time runtime in microseconds.
```

> Limit the containers Real Time CPU usage. This flag tells the kernel to limit the amount of time in a given CPU period Real Time tasks may consume. Ex:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Limit the containers Real Time CPU usage. This option tells the kernel to limit the amount of time in a given CPU period Real Time tasks may consume. Ex:
```

Period of 1,000,000us and Runtime of 950,000us means that this container could consume 95% of available CPU and leave the remaining 5% to normal priority tasks.

The sum of all runtimes across containers cannot exceed the amount allotted to the parent cgroup.

> This flag is not supported on cgroups V2 systems.

Reviewer: I think cgroupv2 has a man page, if so it should be added.  Further, it would be nice to show them how they could tell if they were or were not on a group v2 system.

Author: cgroups has a man page so I have added it, I cannot seem to find a cgrups v2 manpage

> This flag is not supported on cgroups V2 systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is not supported on cgroup V2 systems.
```

#### **--memory**, **-m**=*limit*

Memory limit (format: `<number>[<unit>]`, where unit = b (bytes), k (kilobytes), m (megabytes), or g (gigabytes))

> Allows you to constrain the memory available to a container. If the host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allows the memory available to a container to be constrained. If the host
```

supports swap memory, then the **-m** memory setting can be larger than physical
RAM. If a limit of 0 is specified (not using **-m**), the container's memory is
not limited. The actual limit may be rounded up to a multiple of the operating
system's page size (the value would be very large, that's millions of trillions).

If no mmeory limits are specified, the original container's will be used.

## EXAMPLES
```
# podman container clone d0cf1f782e2ed67e8c0050ff92df865a039186237a4df24d7acba5b1fa8cc6e7
6b2c73ff8a1982828c9ae2092954bcd59836a131960f7e05221af9df5939c584
```

```
# podman container clone --name=clone d0cf1f782e2ed67e8c0050ff92df865a039186237a4df24d7acba5b1fa8cc6e7
6b2c73ff8a1982828c9ae2092954bcd59836a131960f7e05221af9df5939c584
```

```
# podman container clone --destroy --cpus=5 d0cf1f782e2ed67e8c0050ff92df865a039186237a4df24d7acba5b1fa8cc6e7
6b2c73ff8a1982828c9ae2092954bcd59836a131960f7e05221af9df5939c584
```

## SEE ALSO
**[podman-create(1)](podman-create.1.md)**

## HISTORY

> January 2022, Originally written by Charlie Doern <cdoern@redhat.com>

Reviewer: We have "options", not "flags".  Please change any flag/flags to option/options throughout.  I think I got them all.  Also, pronouns in man pages are a no-no.  I've converted all the you/your that I spotted, kill any further I may have missed.

% podman-container-clone(1)

## NAME
podman\-container\-clone - Creates a copy of an existing container

## SYNOPSIS
**podman container clone** [*options*] *container* *name* *image*

## DESCRIPTION

> **podman container clone** creates a copy of a container, recreating all namespaces using the original options when the container was created allowing users to manipulate the original configuration. The second argument in this command can change the image of the clone container

Reviewer 2: Maybe "recreating the original with an identical configuration" instead?

Also should mention the image bit
